How to start

Tasks for Monday
M1. Take a look at the count32.c program. Understand what it's supposed to do. 
M2. Take a look at the disassembled form. Refer to the ARM Reference Manual.
M3. Trace the program's execution step by step.
M4. For each instruction's execution, write down:
* which encoding format (T1, T2, ...) does it use?
* which values does it read (and from where)?
* which registers are updated (and the new values)?
(consider only the first 2-3 loops)
M5. Draw the execution trace.
M6. Based on the used instructions, discuss how many adders/subtractors/multipliers you'll need in your entire circuit and what size should they be?
M7. Draw your datapath's schematic. Distinguish combinational and sequential blocks with two colors. Do not forget to consider memory and register delays!
Outcome: You have understood the task of this lab. Your head should hurt now. This is a good sign... synapses are rearanging.
Hint: Write down the answers to these questions on paper. They will help you remember your decision making process. Bring this with you for the next 2 weeks.

Tasks for Tuesday

T1. Review the design process.
* Start Modelsim and simulate the example testbench. Play around with all the buttons you see and take note of the command line window.
* Start Synopsys Desing Vision and synthesize the example module. 
* Start Modelsim and simulate the GL-netlist.
T2. Review and discuss your datapath from Monday.
T3. Discuss how to proceed from here. Work distribution, schedule, appointments, absences, how to start design.


Read the following:

A1.2 The ARM and Thumb instruction sets
A1.5 The ARM memory model
A2.2 ARM core data types and arithmetic
(only first page)
A2.3 ARM core registers
A2.4 The Application Program Status Register (APSR)
(only first 4 bits are relevant for the HDL Lab)
A3.1 Address space
A3.2 Alignment support
A3.3 Endian support
A6.2 16-bit Thumb instruction encoding
A8 Instruction Details
(only T-Type Encodings, to be used as a reference)

Appendix I Pseudocode Definition
Appendix J Pseudocode Index
Appendix K Register Index
Glossary
